Alerting: Remove `ngalert` feature toggle and introduce two new settings for enabling Grafana 8 alerts and disabling them for specific organisations (#38746)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/unified-alerting/opt-in.md

weight = 128
+++

> # Opt-in to Grafana 8 alerts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Opt-in to Grafana 8 Unified Alerting
```

Author: @achatterjee-grafana what do you think about this suggestion?

> This topic describes how to enable Grafana 8 alerts as well as the rules and restrictions that govern the migration of existing dashboard alerts to this new alerting system. You can also [disable Grafana 8 alerts]({{< relref "./opt-in.md#disable-grafana-8-alerts" >}}) if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic describes how to enable Grafana 8 Unified Alerting as well as the rules and restrictions that govern the migration of existing dashboard alerts to this new alerting system. You can also [disable Grafana 8 alerts]({{< relref "./opt-in.md#disable-grafana-8-alerts" >}}) if needed.
```

Before you begin, we recommend that you backup Grafana's database. If you are using PostgreSQL as the backend data source, then the minimum required version is 9.5.

## Enable Grafana 8 alerts

To enable Grafana 8 alerts:

1. Go to your custom configuration file located in $WORKING_DIR/conf/custom.ini.
1. In the [unified alerts]({{< relref "../../administration/configuration.md#unified_alerting" >}}) section, set the `enabled` property to `true`.
1. Next, in the [alerting]({{< relref "../../administration/configuration.md#alerting" >}}) section of the configuration file, update the configuration for the legacy dashboard alerts by setting the `enabled` property to `false`.
1. Restart Grafana for the configuration changes to take effect.

> **Note:** Before Grafana v8.2, to enable or disable Grafana 8 alerts, users configured the `ngalert` feature toggle. This toggle option is no longer available.

Moreover, before v8.2, notification logs and silences were stored on a disk. If you did not use persistent disks, any configured silences and logs would get lost on a restart, resulting in unwanted or duplicate notifications.

> As of Grafana 8.2, we no longer require the use of a persistent disk. The notification logs and silences are stored in a database. If you used the file-based approach, we'll read those files every fifteen (15) minutes and eventually persist them to the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Grafana 8.2, we no longer require the use of a persistent disk. Instead, the notification logs and silences are stored regularly (every 15 minutes), and a clean shutdown to the database. If you used the file-based approach, Grafana will read the existing file and persisting it eventually.
```

> # Enable Grafana 8 Alerts

Reviewer 2: Should we remove this section and simply add a note that you can optionally disable Grafana 8 alerts and use legacy alerts?

> # Enable Grafana 8 Alerts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Switch to legacy dashboard alerts
```

Reviewer 2: Alternately, "Upgrading to Grafana 8 alerts"

Author: I prefer `Upgrading to Grafana 8 alerts`

> Grafana 8 alerting system is enabled by default.

Reviewer 2: Remove

> > **Note:** We recommend that you backup Grafana's database before upgrading to the next 8.2 release. If you are using PostgreSQL as the backend data source, then the minimum required version is 9.5.

Reviewer 2: This note should be moved to https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/ topic and also to https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/, so that users can see this upfront.

> At startup, since [the unified alerting is enabled]({{< relref "../../administration/configuration.md">}}#unified_alerting) by default, the legacy Grafana dashboard alerting is disabled and existing dashboard alerts are migrated into a format that is compatible with the Grafana 8 alerting system. You can view these migrated rules, alongside any new alerts you create after the migration, from the Alerting page of your Grafana instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since [Grafana alerting is enabled]({{< relref "../../administration/configuration.md">}}#unified_alerting) by default (and legacy dashboard alerting is disabled), existing dashboard alerts are migrated into a format that is compatible with the Grafana 8 alerting system. You can view these migrated rules, alongside any new alerts you create after the migration, from the Alerting page of your Grafana instance.
```

Reviewer 2: Move this section up so that it is the intro.

## Disabling Grafana 8 Alerting after migration

To switch to the legacy dashboard alerts (disabled by default), disable [unified alerting]({{< relref "../../administration/configuration.md">}}#unified_alerting) and enable [legacy alerting]({{< relref "../../administration/configuration.md">}}#alerting). Dashboard alerts will be re-enabled and any alerts created during or after the migration are deleted.

> > **Note:** Any alerting rules created in the Grafana 8 Alerting system will be lost when migrating back to dashboard alerts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Any alerting rules created in the Grafana 8 Alerting system when you switch back to dashboard alerts.
```
